#summary How-to Flash / Update / Change the Firmware on the Ducky

= Programming/Flashing the Ducky =

==Windows==
When it comes to programming the Duck you'll need these resources for Windows: http://code.google.com/p/ducky-decode/source/browse/trunk/Flash/Duck%20Programming.zip . 

Additionally you may need JRE FLIP from http://www.atmel.com/tools/FLIP.aspx and be sure to use the drivers in the Programming.zip

*All relevant Flash files can be found in the SVN repo*

===Installation===
From a clean install on my system, I made the following steps:
 * Install Flip
 * Install Atmel Driver  

===Atmel Driver===
I inserted the ducky in dfu-mode (holding the Ducky's button down, while inserting the Ducky at the same time)

When Windows couldnt find the driver, I did a manual install (sometimes a wizard will pop up, sometimes it wont)
 * Load Device Manager
 * Find Atmel DFU Device
 * Update Driver
 * Manual Install

Or alternatively, you could try:

Control-Panel ->Hardware & Sound -> Add a device -> select atmel-dfu -> manually search for driver -> point to unzipped atmel-driver folder -> ok ->done
====Problems====
*Signed Driver Warning*:

On Win7 I had a signed driver warning, but chose "install anyway". To successfully install the driver.

*Win7 wont allow me to install an unsigned driver*:

The Atmel driver is signed! You should not see this error!

But for reference:

Take a look at http://www.techspot.com/community/topics/how-to-install-use-unsigned-drivers-in-windows-vista-7-x64.127187/

===Flashing===
First insert the ducky while continuously keeping the little black button pressed.

This puts the ducky into _dfu-mode_; we need to be in this mode to update the firmware.

It's pretty simple, just execute: 

{{{
program.bat newfirmware.hex 
}}}

==Unix/OSX==
On the Unix/OSX side grab these nice shell scripts to dump existing and program new firmware. 
Available here: 
 * [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/dfu-programmer/dfu-programmer/0.5.4/dfu-programmer-0.5.4.tar.gz?r=http%3A%2F%2Fsourceforge.net%2Fprojects%2Fdfu-programmer%2F%3Fsource%3Ddlp&ts=1354995624&use_mirror=netcologne dfu-programmer-0.5.4]

*Note*: There are reported problems with dfu programmer version 0.5.2, please try the latest version in the link provided above.

===Flashing the Firmware===

====Dump(backup) current firmware====

{{{
sudo ./dfu-programmer at32uc3b1256 dump >dump.bin
}}}

Don't forget to get the ducky working again:

{{{
sudo ./dfu-programmer at32uc3b1256 reset
}}}

====Update====

1st Erase ducky:

{{{
sudo ./dfu-programmer at32uc3b1256 erase
}}}

Update firmware:

{{{
sudo ./dfu-programmer at32uc3b1256 flash --suppress-bootloader-mem ducky-update.hex
}}}

Don't forget to get the ducky working again:

{{{
sudo ./dfu-programmer at32uc3b1256 reset
}}}