#summary Quick Guide to quickly Change VID and PID of Ducky without recompiling.
= Introduction =

Rather than recompile the firmware to change the VID and PID of the Ducky.

Simply use a hexeditor / or some sed fu - to change the VID and PID!

And simply re-flash the firmware.

==Warning==

You need to keep the VID & PID within the same device class.  Eg keyboard for HID mode, USB Drive, for storage mode.

If you give the Ducky a completely different (or random) VID & PID such as a digital camera / webcam - the OS will load the wrong driver and the Ducky * will not work!*

= Details =
==Version 1 Firmware==
===Locate the VID & PID===
The default VID & PID is 03EB (VID) 2403 (PID)

Due to the Endianess of the hex file we need to search for *EB030324* - thats  reverse(03EB) + reverse (2403) = (EB03)(0324) = *EB030324*

{{{
hexdump -C usb.hex |grep "EB030324"
00010700  34 30 45 42 30 33 30 33  32 34 36 38 0d 0a 3a 31  |40EB03032468..:1|
}}}

===Hex Table===
To understand the relationship between hex and decimal, please refer to the table in the link below:
 * http://www.asciitable.com

===Change the VID & PID===
Now on Linux, we can easily change the PID to 2503. (or 0325 after being converted to hex = *\x30\x33\x32\x35* via _sed_

The following command is used to change the VID & PID, usb.hex is left in its default state (backup) usb1.hex will contain our new firmware with the VID /PID changed:
{{{
sed 's/\x45\x42\x30\x33\x30\x33\x32\x34/\x45\x42\x30\x33\x30\x33\x32\x35/g' < usb.hex >usb1.hex 
}}}

Now to check usb1.hex, for the VID/PID (03EB 2503):
{{{
hexdump -C usb1.hex |grep "EB030325"
00010700  34 30 45 42 30 33 30 33  32 35 36 38 0d 0a 3a 31  |40EB03032568..:1|
}}}

==Version 2 Firmware==
Version 2 Supports the emulation of a specific VID & PID read from a binary file: `vidpid.bin`.

`vidpid.bin` needs to be within the root `/` of the sdcard.

Simply use a hex editor to specify the 2byte VID followed by the 2byte PID

Example: Setting VID & PID for composite device:
{{{
hexdump -C vidpid.bin 
00000000  03 eb 24 03                                       |..$.|
}}}